<!---
eChronos Real-Time Operating System
Copyright (C) 2015  National ICT Australia Limited (NICTA), ABN 62 102 206 173.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3, provided that these additional
terms apply under section 7:

  No right, title or interest in or to any trade mark, service mark, logo
  or trade name of of National ICT Australia Limited, ABN 62 102 206 173
  ("NICTA") or its licensors is granted. Modified versions of the Program
  must be plainly marked as such, and must not be distributed using
  "eChronos" as a trade mark or product name, or misrepresented as being
  the original Program.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@TAG(NICTA_DOC_AGPL)
  -->

%title ARMv7M package: user manual
%version 1-draft
%docid GQH8W1

Introduction
-------------

The ARMv7M package provides the following modules:

<dl>
  <dt>`build`</dt>
  <dd>A build module.</dd>

  <dt>`ctxt-switch`</dt>
  <dd>A module that implements the low-level context switching operation for non-preemptive variants.</dd>

  <dt>`ctxt-switch-preempt`</dt>
  <dd>A module that implements the low-level context switching operation for preemptive variants.</dd>

  <dt>`exception-preempt`</dt>
  <dd>A module that implements the low-level preemption mechanism for preemptive variants, and generates appropriate trampoline code for exception handlers that cause preemption.</dd>

  <dt>`vectable`</dt>
  <dd>A module that generates an appropriate vector table, default linker script, and bitband.h header.</dd>
</dl>


`armv7m/build`
==============

The build module supports the *system build* interface.
The module does not support any options.
For correct operation, the system must include at least one C or assembler file.
The system must also have an assigned linker-script.
It is recommended that the vectable module is used to provide a functional linker-script.

`armv7m.ctxt-switch`
====================

The `armv7m.ctxt-switch` module implements the low-level context switching operation for non-preemptive RTOS variants.

This module does not have any configuration options, however as the RTOS depends on this module it must always be included in any system description that uses a non-preemptive RTOS variant.

`armv7m.ctxt-switch-preempt`
============================

The `armv7m.ctxt-switch-preempt` module implements the low-level context switching operation for preemptive RTOS variants.

This module does not have any configuration options, however as the RTOS depends on this module it must always be included in any system description that uses a preemptive RTOS variant.

`armv7m.exception-preempt`
==========================

The `armv7m.exception-preempt` module implements the low-level preemption mechanism for preemptive RTOS variants.
It also provides a means of generating trampoline code for exception handlers that the system designer wishes to be able to cause preemption.
These can then be installed as an exception vectors (using the `armv7m.vectable` module).

Since the RTOS depends on this module, it must always be included in any system description that uses a preemptive RTOS variant.

### `trampolines`

The `trampolines` element should contain `trampoline` child elements, which define each of the exception trampolines to be generated by the module.

#### `name`

Each `trampoline` element must be given a `name` child element.
This should be a unique, valid C identifier.
The name of the generated trampoline function will be `exception_preempt_<name>`.

#### `handler`

Each `trampoline` element must be given a `handler` child element.
This must be the C identifier for a handler function, which must have a boolean return type.
The handler function MUST return a boolean value that is true if it has just made an action with the potential to cause a preemption, such as raising an interrupt event.
This requirement must be adhered to for the RTOS to be able to enforce its scheduling policies.

`armv7m/vectable`
=================

The vectable module controls the generation of `vectable.s` and `default.ld`, as well as providing the `bitband.h` header file, which is used by the RTOS.

`vectable.s` implements:

* the system vector table (i.e.: interrupt dispatch table), which is at the fixed address 0x0.
* the low-level `entry` function, which is responsible for initializing `.data` and `.bss` before jumping to `main`.
* the default `reset` exception handler.

When using `prj` in configuration mode, the user may prefer to use a custom hand-written `vectable.s` rather than the one generated by the `armv7m.vectable` module.

`default.ld` generates a linker-script that is suitable for use with the GNU linker.
Although it is possible to use an alternative linker script, care must be taken to ensure it contains the necessary symbol declarations, and to ensure that sections are grouped in an appropriate manner.

The `bitband.h` header defines a number of special macros which are used to simplify the use of the ARM *bitband* feature.
The *bitband* feature allows atomic access to individual bits within words, and forms a critical piece of the RTOS implementation.
In addition to the macro expansion used by the compiler, uses of the macro are also parsed by the `armv7m.vectable` module and used to populate the `default.ld` file with the appropriate symbol aliases.

Note: When using `prj` in configuration only mode, the `bitband.h` header can not be used by code other than the RTOS itself.

The `armv7m.vectable` module supports a number of (optional) configuration options.

A subset of the individual exceptions (whose handlers occupy the entries 0..15 of the vector table) may be configured through the following configuration options:

* `nmi`
* `hardfault`
* `memmanage`
* `busfault`
* `usagefault`
* `svcall`
* `debug_monitor`
* `pendsv`
* `systick`

Each of these configurations has the type *C identifier*, and defaults to `reset`.

Additionally, individual IRQs (whose handlers occupy entries 16..255 of the vector table) can be configured via the `external_irq` configuration option, which consists of the child options:

* `number`, the IRQ number of the IRQ vector to be configured.
* `handler`, the C identifier of the IRQ's handler function.

Note that IRQ numbers 0..239 map to exception numbers 16..255, where the exception number corresponds to the IRQ vector's place in the vector table.
Individual IRQ vector table entries default to handler `reset` if not specified via an `external_irq` configuration.

The C identifier type are all ASCII strings which are valid identifiers in the C language.
In all cases, the identifier must refer to a function which the application implements and the RTOS invokes when the corresponding exception occurs.
Such functions must have the signature `void f(void)`.
No checks are performed during configuration to ensure the specified exception handler function is available.
Subsequent linker errors will occur if the exception handler is incorrectly specified.

The boolean option `preemption` must be set to `true` for systems on RTOS variants with preemption support.
The option defaults to `false` if not specified.
If preemption support is enabled, the `pendsv` and `svcall` vectors are not available for configuration.

The other options available for the `armv7m.vectable` module control the memory layout.
The correct values for these items generally require consultation with the chip reference manual.
The following values are configurable (defaults appear in parentheses):

* flash_load_addr (0x0)
* code_addr (0x0)
* data_addr (0x2000.0000)
* bitband_base (0x2000.0000)
* bitband_size (0x100.0000)
* bitband_alias (0x2200.0000)

Finally, there is an option (`stack_size`) for specifying the initial stack size in bytes.
This stack is used by the `main` function up until the RTOS is actually started.
The default stack size is 4096 bytes.
