<!---
eChronos Real-Time Operating System
Copyright (C) 2017  National ICT Australia Limited (NICTA), ABN 62 102 206 173.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3, provided that these additional
terms apply under section 7:

  No right, title or interest in or to any trade mark, service mark, logo
  or trade name of of National ICT Australia Limited, ABN 62 102 206 173
  ("NICTA") or its licensors is granted. Modified versions of the Program
  must be plainly marked as such, and must not be distributed using
  "eChronos" as a trade mark or product name, or misrepresented as being
  the original Program.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@TAG(NICTA_DOC_AGPL)
  -->
# Repository Structure

The [`components`](../components) directory contains the RTOS component source and documentation.

The [`packages`](../packages) directory provides various platform-specific RTOS modules and other source modules.
RTOS modules generated by `x.py` are output to locations within the `packages` directory structure.

The [`x.py`](../x.py) tool provides an interface for:
* RTOS module and product release generation (`x.py build`),
* task management (`x.py task`), and
* testing (`x.py test`).

Much of `x.py`'s underlying implementation resides in the [`pylib`](../pylib) directory, and its self-test suite (`x.py test x`) is implemented in [`x_test.py`](../x_test.py).

The [`prj`](../prj) directory contains everything related to the `prj` tool, which provides an interface for configuring and building systems as compositions of source modules.

The `release` directory is created by `x.py`, and contains all releasable artifacts such as product releases.

The [`external_tools`](../external_tools) and [`tools`](../tools) directories contain external tools committed to the repository in order for the repository to be self-contained in its ability to provide everything that is needed for development.
See [`external_tools/LICENSE.txt`](../external_tools/LICENSE.txt) and [`tools/LICENSE.txt`](../tools/LICENSE.txt) for license information regarding the contents of these directories.

The [`pm`](../pm) directory contains project management related meta-data.
This meta-data is crucial for documenting that our internal development processes are correctly followed, as well as providing a record for external audit.
The feature documentation for development tasks resides in [`pm/tasks`](./.pm/tasks), and their reviews can be found under [`pm/reviews`](../pm/reviews).

The [`docs`](../docs) directory contains various release documentation-related content, including templates for auto-generated manuals and top-level README files for product releases.

The [`rtos`](../rtos) directory contains a model of the RTOS schedulers implemented in Python for testing purposes.
